Wow, how are you doing?
Isn't it great for the role?
I'll talk a little bit if you like, or I'll just start, I'll answer your questions.
Sometimes people want me to talk too.
If you want me to talk, so.
I graduated from here in 1960, and I can almost find my way around it.
It's sort of the same and sort of different.
I used to do biology labs in the field.
So it's okay.
And it seems really nice.
I went back to my house.
I lived in Barbary Lane in East Hills.
And it's almost unrecognizable, because when I moved here, it was right after the Second World War, and all those houses were sort of sitting in mud.
There was a lot of sunlight coming in.
Now all the streets are shady, and it was really nice.
When I left here, I went to Harvard, and my idea was to become a writer.
And that was my goal.
My dad was a journalist, but I didn't want to be a journalist.
I wanted to write novels.
And at some time during my college years, first I went to the English department, because I thought,
You know, I have only very simple ideas.
If you're going to be a writer, maybe you should go to the English department.
And it turned out the English department really didn't have any interest in writers.
And I was getting bad marks for my way of writing, which I was quite proud of.
And decided, I guess, because I had a scientific benefit to do a sort of test.
told someone that I was doing this because I didn't want to get thrown out.
And I submitted an essay by George Orwell as my own.
So I was getting C pluses, and George Orwell got a B minus.
So it was clear that he was a better author than I was.
But it still seems to me that if George Orwell, who I thought was a really wonderful writer, only got a B minus,
I had a really interesting time.
And in the course of that, I read somewhere that there were only 200 people in America who could make a living writing books full time.
I have no idea if that's really true or not, but I thought, gee.
It would be pretty hard to be one of 200 people in the whole country doing that.
So I chickened out and went to medical school.
Because I thought that would be a really interesting job and it would be really worthwhile, you know, and be helping people and creating lives.
And it seemed kind of, you know, fast paced and changing a lot of people with technology and things like that.
So I went on to medical school.
And I had this situation, I had always paid part of my college education and so on working in the summers to be a lifeguard and things like that.
And then I also did writing for the newspapers along my board.
And so I had this habit of writing to make some money.
And I began to write paperback books.
in medical school to page my turnovers.
And it was a big secret.
Nobody knew.
You know, because in medical school, a lot of your grade is personal assessment from your teachers.
And I knew what they would think if they knew that I was writing.
So, nobody ever knew.
It's kind of the same as what they think now that they know I'm writing the UR.
You know, it's just, they don't like it.
It was a really interesting life.
And all that happened was that it began to get more and more complicated because the books began to be successful.
And at one point, I had written a book called A Case of Need.
And somebody bought it in Hollywood to make a movie out of it.
And they said, we want you to come to a little visual aid.
I want you to come to Hollywood and talk to the screenwriter.
And I said, I can't.
You don't understand.
I'm working in the hospital on .
In those days, you went in at 5 o'clock in the morning, and you came out the following night, and more or less collapsed, and then got up and did it again.
So I had no time to go to Hollywood.
And they made those noises like, well, if you don't come, maybe you won't make a movie.
And it didn't occur to me that I was really very unimportant in this process.
So I thought I'd better try and go.
And I had to get permission from the chief of medicine to leave for the weekend to get some days off.
So I asked to speak to him and said I had a problem and needed some time off.
And he asked me if there was illness in the family, which
was the usual excuse.
In medicine, you know, you do three months of orientation in one hospital, then you go to another hospital.
So it was possible to have your grandmother die four or five times before the hospital, they didn't know.
And I was so wound up that instead of saying yes, there was an illness in the family, I said no.
It actually was something else that I'd written this novel and I'd sold it to Hollywood and they wanted me to fly out to California and talk to the screenwriter.
He looked at me very solemnly and said, well, then you go.
And he said, make sure you get a lot of rest.
No one believed it.
It was kind of crazy.
And I went, you know, and I went.
I was in a limousine and all this stuff, you know.
I took off my white lab coat and got in a limousine.
You know, and then I talked to all these people and ate all this fancy food in California.
And then I came back and put on my lab coat and went back to work.
You can't do that very long without going crazy.
So I retired from medicine.
Boy, this is a long story.
I went to the Salk Institute after I graduated.
My idea was that since I could live anywhere, I thought I want to live somewhere so I don't have to dig my car out of the snow.
San Diego sounded very good, and Jonas Salk had started as a beautiful place.
And he agreed to take me as a writer-in-residence.
I was not going to be serious.
A good thing, because everybody else in the history won the Nobel Prize.
I was not up to it.
It was really an interesting thing, though.
So I could have these dinner parties, and you'd walk in, and there'd be 15 or 20 Nobel Prize meetings in the same room.
A really bizarre experience.
And prepares you very well for Hollywood, actually.
In 1970, they were making a movie of this book I'd written called The Andromeda Spring.
So I thought that I'd like to go and watch.
Because I'd never actually seen a movie made.
I thought that would be really interesting.
And I went and watched and decided I wanted to do that.
And never went back to .
They just stayed there.
And worked in movies.
I think that I could probably keep talking like this, but it would be better if I stop now.
I feel as though you've had an opportunity to get a look at me, and hear me, and not be able to hear me.
And so why don't I talk about the funeral?
I can't believe you're in trouble.
Did you ever imagine, when you first wrote Jurassic Park, that it would eventually become the highest living room of all time?
Did you hear the question?
Especially, did I and I have to do the highest prices in the fourth time?
No, absolutely not.
I didn't think anyone would make it, you know, because it was very, very expensive.
And it was just, it came out just at the time when everybody was saying movies cost too much, we're going to spend less, and, you know, we're not going to do that.
And I thought, oh no, this is a dinosaur movie.
You don't have to bring in truckloads of money.
And so I didn't think anyone would make it.
And then when Steven bought it, Steven Spielberg, the thing about Steven Spielberg is you never know what will happen, you know, realistically.
I mean, he very much does what he wants to do.
And of course, he bought VR, you know, but then he didn't do that.
And then he bought Jurassic Park and then he went off and did Hook.
So who knew if it would ever get made?
What happened was I went to visit them when they were shooting in Kauai.
It was like the first two weeks.
And he was in a very good mood.
And he was sort of lining up shots.
And it's very, very fun to watch.
It's really interesting because he lines up every shot by himself.
And you can watch him video.
And the first time you put the shot out and it's really bled out, you look at it and think, hmm, that's good.
And then he gets behind a camera, he moves this here, he shifts that there, he changes the action, he moves the light, and you look at it again, it's better.
And then he does the thing, you know, and suddenly it just pops, you know, and you go, wow, look at that.
And he says it again and again, all day long.
He's a genius.
And so it's really fun to be there.
But he said, you know, all the people wanted you
is have fun and believe the dinosaurs are real.
And I walked in and thought, you know, this could be a very big movie, if that's what it does.
There have been a lot of work circulating about why you've never eventually robbed a new book, and that you have some sort of falling out of the initiative.
I have no idea what it is.
Is there a rumor that I don't make some rumors?
Yeah, I'm like, yeah.
I was falling out with a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year.
No, I've always watched it.
I have to wonder if you do this at all.
I don't know.
You know, there's a lot of rumors.
For a long time, people have been calling up and saying, how are you feeling?
And this is the way it says it.
And finally, I started asking, why are you next to me?
And it turned out there was these rumors that I was dying.
No, I don't know what that is.
When you get ready to write a book, such as Congo, how much time do you spend researching this to make sure that your story is super active, super active?
I used to say that I didn't do any research, and I finally concluded that it couldn't be true.
And I think the answer is that I...
think about a project for a long time, and I cook articles, and I prepare.
So by the time I actually begin, I have a lot of information.
And then after it's done, during the time of writing, it's actually a very little research.
Sometimes I want a fact or an idea.
I often go to maps because I don't want the name of a town.
And then it sounds good.
Get the math out and find it.
You can't make the wrong very well.
And then they extend the fact-checking at the end of .
Are you planning on making a lot more ?
I'm not.
Steven Spielberg is.
Yes, he's working on it now.
He's announced it for the summer of 1997.
It's a really good question.
Sometimes these numbers are published in places like Ford's Magazine, and I'm astonished.
And I don't know if they're right or not.
I once had a letter to Forbes and said, listen, I think you're really wrong, but I know you want to be German to be accurate.
So in case you've made a terrible mistake about how much I'm making, will you make up the difference?
They didn't answer back.
I'm very bad about, I don't know.
You know, I'm doing fine, but I don't know those things, and I don't know, for example, people often say to me, well, what kind of contractual rights do you have?
You know, on VR, do you have the right to tell them what to do if you don't like what's going on?
I don't know.
I don't know what the situation is, because I just try and stay focused on the work.
You know, I mean, I am aware that I'm a lot more successful than I was 10 years ago, you know, but I don't know if that works.
I don't count it.
Right in the left.
Okay.
I was wondering how you got to be still up on some trends.
You're willing to hear that?
Sometimes I get to repeat the question and think of the answers.
One of the nice things for me is to be able to go into an area and just read for a long time.
I used to think that in a way the nature of my life was that I get to go do the research, which is the fun part, and then the penalty phase is you have to go write a book.
And it's really sort of how I think about it.
I mean, it's a weird thing.
There was a book by James Bly called Chaos.
And a friend of mine had read it and said, have you read this book?
It's really difficult.
I don't understand it at all.
So I went and read it and I thought, well, this is really not so difficult.
And I decided to put it in Jurassic Park as a sort of easy explanation because I thought,
he at least should understand about it.
I feel very lucky that I can just follow up and interest me.
You know, right now the thing that interests me a lot is, and it's based on things like the Menendez trial, is the question of what actually causes our behavior, how we think about our behavior.
You know, if we are abused as children, does that mean that we are inevitably going to grow up and blow our parents' brains out?
You know, do we have a choice?
I once had a driver on a movie that I was working on, and this man, who is now in his thirties, was the only survivor of a mass murder of his entire family.
All of his brothers and sisters and family had died and he survived because his siblings fell dead on him and covered him and the killer didn't realize that he was still alive.
The nicest person you'd ever know, you know, this really sweet guy who had this horrible life experience.
So what exactly is the relationship between our life experiences and our genetic makeup and how we eventually come to behave?
I think there's huge confusion about that in our society.
And there's huge confusion in me.
I don't understand very well.
So I'm off reading now John Stuart Mill and On Liberty and all these books that I've never read before because I don't know a lot.
And it's really interesting to find.
Where do the ideas come from?
I have a little guy who walks around.
He's very short.
I don't know.
You know, if I knew where they come from, I would have more.
But one thing is, I have these curiosities.
And I don't know why I'm curious about things, but I'm curious about them.
Or I have these questions, like, what causes behavior?
Does anybody know?
Do we accept Freudian ideas?
Do we accept other kinds of ideas?
Where do we lay responsibility for behavior?
Are you responsible for behavior no matter what?
Are you always responsible?
Or can there be some life experiences that are so horrible and distorting that we say, okay, you're not responsible.
You have been so ripped apart.
How do we make those distinctions?
How do we draw those lines?
What do we really think?
I don't know why I'm interested in that, but I am.
Oh, you have a sec, part two?
Okay, go ahead.
It would be a long explanation.
It's from a computer program, and we can talk about it later.
But it's really meant to just sort of give you a visual
suggestion of what these chaotic ideas are about, you know, getting closer to the edge of chaos and having systems collapse.
To try and make an image that suggests that, please.
Yes?
A lot of times people will watch a movie and say it was nothing compared to, like, the book that it was based on.
How do you feel like movies have, like, your movies reflected your writing?
Do you feel like they captured the essence of what you wanted to get across?
It depends on the movie, but very often I'm happy about the movie.
You know, one of the really sobering things that can happen is that you get to make the movie of your own book and you don't do it very well.
I did a book, a movie called The Great Train Robber with Sean Connery in the late 70s.
And it was my book and my screenplay and my direction.
And when it was all done, I thought, you know,
I really made some terrible mistakes.
I didn't, you know, it shouldn't have been that long.
So that tends to make you a lot more sympathetic toward other people.
But I'm not always sympathetic.
My favorite book is called Travels, and I think it's because it's about me.
You know, I mean, I think that
It's a purely egotistical thing that, you know, a whole book about me.
And I really want to go on.
What exactly is ER being done in our book that you read and wrote one time?
Originally, ER is based on experiences that I had had in the emergency room in Massachusetts General Hospital.
when it had this long history and no one would make it.
Eventually, Steven Spielberg bought it.
And we had talked about changes because he was at one time going to direct it as a movie.
So it had been a long time since I met the Mass General.
And I sent it to them and said, I've written this thing and I want to revise it.
Is there all right if I come back to the emergency room?
And they said, absolutely not.
You cannot come anywhere near here unless you
said it somewhere else.
And I thought, why would I go away to Boston and said it somewhere else?
So I never went back.
But it was all based on true incidents, and people remember them.
You know, in the pilot, Harold Hathaway, the nurse who attempted suicide, and it was very serious, and all two things.
Do you think the arms would be as big as it comes down to the first
I think we are a big, big of a big thing.
You know, it was this screenplay that nobody liked.
And I always thought, just make it, it'll be terrific.
So I had that confidence always.
And they used to have many people who would say, well, you have to change this, you have to change that.
And I wouldn't.
You know, I was passing the rest of it, and I just refused to do it.
So I have that confidence.
But the question of whether or not it's going to draw an enormous audience at the beach is another question.
I have no idea of the quality of it.
I read the point in the comment that you think that you're planning your book to create the interest file.
You started writing that?
I'm sorry.
My editor asked me something.
Because of changes in technology, you can now publish very rapidly.
So I only finished this book, really finished it about eight or nine months ago.
And I think it's really unseemly of my editor to ask for the next one.
You know, they did.
I was really encouraged.
And I feel really, really lucky, you know, when I look back about, and it's not just because some of them are here.
I really feel like I had this blessed upbringing.
I had teachers that, because I have some of those papers, and essays, and short stories, and they're awful.
You know, someone wanted to publish a book of early life called Juvenilius,
of American writers, and so they asked me for some of mine, and I went back.
And I still have things in the next grade.
And I looked through them, and they were just terrible.
And there's a lot out of it.
I really wrote a lot.
So somebody had to read all that week after week and comment on it and encourage me, and that happened.
I don't know.
But I think it's better to be a curse than a curse.
What's your book during your meeting?
You know, I was always really interested in architecture.
And in fact, all the time I was doing medicine, I liked medicine, okay, but I had some problems.
I was sick of the side of blood and things like that.
It was awkward.
But I really admired architecture at that time.
I think I might have tried to become an architect.
I like to hike a lot.
I like to get into as much of a wilderness area as I can.
I used to scuba dive a lot, but I don't do it anymore.
I had a lot of interest in sort of daredevil things.
you know, risk these sorts of things and would occasionally get into trouble, you know, very high or very low in the world.
And I don't do that anymore.
I have a child.
I'm responding to that.
How helpful is that information that you learned in medical school ?
It's not too helpful anymore, you know, because it's all wrong.
You know, they used to tell you that the speed of change and knowledge of medicine is so fast, they say, we've been here for four years, so by the time you graduate, 25% of what you've been taught is wrong.
And I've been out a quarter of a century, so it's all wrong.
This is wrong.
Well, I think that's a great thing.
I think that's a great thing.
Why did I write the Patreon Army?
You know, there was a reason, and it's, you know, I've learned a lot over the years, but at that time, there was a study that had been done in New York about muggers.
And the study showed that the muggers were not primarily drug addicts or people who were in some kind of dire strait.
But there was this professional class of muggers, you know, people who did this for a living.
And it shocked New York.
This was maybe 73, 74, something like that.
And I thought, well, that's really interesting, you know, this idea of a professional criminal class with people who do different work, you know.
Some people are cognitive, some people are criminals.
And I went, I started going back, tracking it backwards to where the origins of this idea
came, and I discovered that there had been, in 1835, this very interesting train robbery.
Trains were new.
Somebody had robbed a train.
And it was quite a shocking sort of discovery.
And I wrote about that as a way to try and talk about what was happening now, but no one ever made a connection.
I don't think he's on that train robbery, but are all the characters, like when he died, are they all real?
Those are the people.
But where nothing is known, I did it.
You know, it's the same thing with the dinosaurs.
Nobody really knows how the dinosaurs look and behave.
But if you're going to do that story, you're going to have to do it.
So I do it.
A lot of your books have a common theme of technology running out of control.
Is that where you think we're headed as a society?
I don't know how to tell you this.
I don't know where we're headed.
One of the smartest people that I've ever come across is Arthur Clarke, who has a really wide range of knowledge about a lot of different types of disciplines.
And he wrote a book called Profiles of the Future.
And he guessed where all kinds of technologies could go.
up until 2020 or 2050.
And you look at that, and he did it in 1968, it's very wrong.
I mean, he really missed a lot of stuff.
And major defining things, for example, that someone would go and put a computer on a microchip, and that these would now be very cheap and they would be everywhere.
Now they're on desktops, they're in thermostats, they're in automobiles, they're all over the place.
No one knew that.
You know, you didn't, couldn't guess it.
An illness like AIDS, it would have worldwide effects, absolutely unanticipated.
So all these things happened.
They completely changed the course of everything and no one can predict it.
I don't know what's going to happen.
Do you feel that like it was going up to the AIDS community or others?
Arthur Conan Doyle was my favorite author.
I was a very stubborn reader of fiction.
My friends gave me to read it.
But in my defense, they were choosing the books for me to read.
And they were really weird books.
To ask a teenager at Robinson High School to read
You said, has anybody here read Morning Doom?
Yeah, well, you know, I was paid, I forget, one or two dollars to read the book, and I earned it, I can tell you.
Arthur Conan Doyle, the Sherlock Holmes story, through the first book that I read, I read a lot of nonfiction books.
Right.
You have to write a lot.
And the reason for doing that is you get, I mean, it's a very weird line, you know, and it's not for everybody.
So by doing that, you'll find out if it's for you.
And you'll also get all the baloney out of your system.
Where do you write?
I have an office.
I get up in the morning, I get my time, I drive to my office, and it's like a very good job.
And I sit at the desk and I write from the morning.
Actually, I write early in the morning usually.
I'm working for about noon, and then I'm done, and then I do.
So we seem to think that's in the mail in the afternoon.
It's a job.
How much time goes into it?
I can't tell you, because there's all this time of thinking.
before you start, which is usually this year and sometimes five years, sometimes a lot longer.
But the actual writing time, well, I started Louis World on the end of October last year, started actually writing.
And I finished in sometime in July.
Finished.
How long was that?
Eight months?
Too long.
Did you find it more difficult to write the boss world than it was to write the original track?
Of course, is it more difficult to write the sequel than the original?
The answer, oddly enough, is no.
The first book was so difficult to write that
This is a snap.
There's a weird thing about the first book, which is that it was originally written from the standpoint of the kids.
And I gave it to people to read it, and everybody hated it.
You know, there's a certain kind of reaction you get sometimes to your work.
Somebody says, well, it's not very good, or well.
People hated it.
I would feel them want to throw the manuscript back in my face.
I would get questions like, why did you write this book?
It's not hopeful for the future.
And it took me a long time before finally somebody said to me, you know, it's told from the standpoint that I wanted it to read it for me.
And I thought, oh, it's adult.
It's fantasy for adults.
And so I made the adult characters more important than the kids, and then everyone thought, this is great.
Before you start writing a book, do you have, like, all the secrets of this play now?
No.
I don't.
I have a general plan, and I don't have a specific novel.
I hope I'm improving.
I worry about that, you know.
Sometimes... I never had... See, I always thought that when you got to be about 21, then your life was sort of over.
I mean, because you could see when you were younger, when you were...
your age, you can see, you know, each year by year, people look different, you know, right?
I mean, things happen.
Shoulders get bigger, other things get bigger.
And I thought, well, you know, so there's that development.
And then around 21, it stops, and you're kind of the same until you die.
Your hair gets, you know, pulled out and, you know, you get crabby and weak and stuff.
I didn't have any idea that there would be continuing changes just as there went through adolescence, which is my experience of adulthood.
So what happens is that sometimes I really feel as though I don't really have anything to, I have no interest or nothing I want to write.
It's a very desolate feeling.
And that's more awful than
Can I get some water?
Is there any water in here?
Yes.
Sorry.
You guys are holding up very well.
If I could change anything that I've done.
Huh.
You know, thanks very much.
Some of the stuff that becomes philosophical, I tend not to have regret.
You know, I've done some really stupid things and I've wasted a lot of time in my life and I've behaved badly and I've been married a lot.
What is a lot?
Four times.
Now listen, that's sort of like okay if Hollywood, you know.
That's like low normal.
Three is about the average, so you're a little above average.
Only one in my present marriage.
That's the thing I'm pleased about.
But I tend to think, well, that's what happened, you know.
I do the best I can, and it's not always so great.
Do you enjoy these things?
I enjoy these things.
You know, you could probably miss her.
It's a real mixed bag, you know.
You asked me about the money, didn't you?
Listen, here's the answer.
You know, Joe Lewis was once asked about this and he said, I've been rich and I've been poor and rich is better.
That's one answer, right?
The other answer is, it's very nice
You know, you can usually get a table in a restaurant and all that stuff, you know, or a reservation.
Come back to your high school and everybody will talk to you and act like you're an important person.
That's all really nice.
The other thing is that you're never left alone, you know.
You have to have really good table manners because someone's always watching.
There's none of this stuff, you know, because they're all looking at you.
At a certain point in my life, I realized that I was going to have people watch me eat.
And it's weird.
It's just weird.
You're eating and they're watching.
Michael?
I just have one announcement to make.
I'm Paul Bogards.
I'm from Michael's publisher, Knopf.
And the first announcement I'd like to make, actually, is I'd like to thank Jay Stoller and Joan Greenfield for...
making this happen I think that they've been terrific so I just want to acknowledge I'd also like to let each of you know that we have about 10 minutes left and during these 10 minutes they're going to be some some photographers just snapping some pictures so be completely at ease keep asking questions but that's what's going to be happening okay don't pay any attention to them yeah
When you see, like, your book being made into a movie, do you ever feel that you could depict the essence of the movie better if you were acting in it in the scene or something like that?
The reality of it is that it is another thing.
You know, I get to have the book be exactly the way I want it.
And really, to an amazing degree, no one... You know, I'm always...
The last few books, the publishers always say, it's fine.
And I'm saying, no, it's not.
You know, I still have more to do.
So I have complete freedom.
It then goes to whoever the director is.
It goes to Barry Robinson or it goes to Steven Spielberg.
Thank you.
And they do what they would do.
Wow.
And what they do...
What they do is not what I would do.
Because they're not me and I'm not them.
The best I can hope for is that they will make a good movie as an example of their work.
And that it will be a good movie in its own terms.
It's not fair for me to want it to be exactly what I have.
What do you do after you complete a novel?
Do you celebrate or do you want to keep married?
Well, usually I try and take a rest.
But in this case, I get to come and do publicity.
I generally try and run away to avoid the reviews.
So I'm going to Japan next week.
Do you still have the opportunity to do a band form?
I have the, yeah, I have the opportunity.
I don't have the skeleton anymore.
I played about three years ago, and I was just a massive pain.
And, you know, I don't know what happened.
I used to be able to hit them a lot, and now it's just, they've moved the basket around.
I don't know.
While you're both trying to keep in college, why did you try to keep in college?
Because I had never done a sequel.
I'm really interested to do what I haven't done.
I would be really interested to write a play.
At one time, I was going to write a cookbook, which filled my publisher with horror.
And they thought, the last thing we need is your cookbook.
And I know that they're looking forward to my book of poetry.
If I haven't done it, I'm really interested.
And so doing a sequel is, I mean, it isn't interesting in the sense of not being a new topic, but it's interesting because you have so little freedom in what to do.
So I was, I did it.
What type of book do you read?
I read almost always not a fiction.
And it's generally on some topic area that I'm studying.
I think absolutely not.
No, at one time actually I was going to write a sequel to Congo.
And that was a situation where the movie was never going to be made.
But now that the movie's been made, I won't be able to do it.
What do you learn about the show about Morris?
Relationships.
Sad dating experiences.
Which is the story of my life at that time.
You know, unrequited love, people wouldn't go out to do things that turned out badly.
That's what I knew.
You know, there are a few people who are in the movie business who are in my class in high school.
Mike Phillips is the producer who produced the
and some people in television.
So I see them sometimes.
But it's kind of a kind of blown apart in a lot of different directions.
And it's going to be a long time now.
I don't understand how it happened.
It's 35 years since I was here.
I know.
I think you've asked more than twice the age of what you've done.
When Thursday night rolls around, do you actually watch ER, or it's all misty?
Sometimes I watch it.
I used to watch it, particularly in the early part of the first year, because I was very concerned about how it would feel to tune that in at 10 o'clock at night.
But sometimes it's really exhausting.
It's 20 o'clock at night.
I don't want to watch this.
So I wanted to have that audience experience.
But generally, no, because I've already seen that.
What do you remember most about that?
I thought it was fabulous here.
You know, I mean, at the time that I was here, it was very competitive.
I mean, everyone was here.
That's true.
I mean, people, you know, used to throw up weeks before the actual people started.
And there was a lot of tension about going to college and getting through grades.
So it was a no-nonsense part.
Okay, well, there you are.
Hey, listen, I'm not opposed to that.
This is the world, you know.
It's a competitive plan.
And I would think that you guys are getting to do this stuff.
I mean, I certainly did.
I was, I think, the first person from the school to go to Harvard.
So there's a lot of stuff about how well prepared I would be at Harvard.
And I just took off like a racket.
I was very well prepared at this school.
I was extremely well prepared for Harvard.
And there's not much else to say.
It was great.
And you said that your father was a journalist.
Do you think that, um, that I think it's getting passed on during the holidays and who would have wanted to be earlier?
I think that's right.
Well, at least I saw somebody typing as a way that I would, so it didn't seem weird to me.
What do you think about reading about children?
Yeah, I'm hungry.
She's my daughter's godmother, and she's, if you want to know more about her, she's discussed a little bit of travel.
She's a very unusual lady.
Are you guys getting tired?
Mark Twain went there for terrible death, but he talked about it.
Yeah.
I think behavior has consequences and has, I think there's a whole cascade of consequences.
There's consequences in terms of how we behave with each other, you know, sort of ethical behavior, you know, correct right, right conduct, you know.
There's broader consequences for how we behave inside our family structures, inside our institutions like this, or inside our communities.
And there's global consequences.
I don't know how they became extinct, but I think that's how we'll become extinct if they're not there.
You know,
My third grade teacher was named Ms.
Fromkin.
And one day she gave me this, I think in the, the Frosden High School, I don't know if it's still there.
And she gave me a canary to hold, and I let the canary go, and it flew up into this grave.
And I was terribly embarrassed and upset.
And I wanted to die.
And Ms.
Fromkin made that okay.
and we somehow got the canary back.
I don't know how to distinguish that important experience for me, for the contribution of my parents, the contribution of all of my other people here.